## Walking up to Why Workers Can't Get No It Satisf

Being an information technology, or IT, worker is not a job I envy.
They are the ones who, right in the middle of a critical meeting, `are expected to` instantly fix the projector that's no longer working.
They `have to` tolerate the bad tempers of colleagues `frustrated at` the number of times they've had to call the help desk for the same issue.
They are also the ones who know there are systems that are more powerful, reliable and faster, but their employer simply will not put up the funds to buy them.
According to a recent survey, employees who have a job reliant on IT support consider IT a major source of job dissatisfaction.

Through no fault of their own, they can suddenly find their productivity deteriorating or quality control non-existent.

And there's little they can do about it.

The experience of using IT penetrates almost the entire work field.

It has become a crucial part of employees' overall work experience.

When IT is operating as it should, employee self-confidence swells.

Their job satisfaction, too, can surge when well-functioning machines relieve them of dull tasks or repetitive processes.

But if there's one thing that triggers widespread employee frustration, it's an IT transformation project gone wrong,
where swollen expectations have been popped and a long list of promised efficiencies have been reversed.

This occurs when business leaders implement IT initiatives with little consideration of how those changes will impact the end user.

Which is why managers should appreciate just how influential the IT user experience is to their employees,
and exert substantial effort in ensuring their IT team eliminates programming errors and application crashes.

Adequate and timely IT support should also be available to enable users to cope with technological issues at work.

More importantly, IT practitioners need to understand what employees experience mentally when they use IT.

Therefore, businesses need to set up their IT infrastructure so that it is designed to fit in with their employees' work, rather than adjust their work to fit in with the company's IT limitations.

## Sugar Shocked

That describes the reaction of many Americans this week following revelations that, 50 years ago,
the sugar industry paid Harvard scientists for research that shifted the focus away from sugar's role in heart disease - and put the spotlight squarely on dietary fat.

What might surprise consumers is just how many present-day nutrition studies are still funded by the food industry.

Nutrition scholar Marion Nestle of New York University spent a year informally tracking industry-funded studies on food.

"Roughly 90% of nearly 170 studies favored the sponsor's interest," Nestle tells us.

Other systematic reviews support her conclusions.

For instance, studies funded by Welch Foods - the brand behind Welch's 100% Grape Juice - found that drinking Concord grape juice daily may boost brain function.

Another, funded by Quaker Oats, concluded, as a Daily Mail story put it, that "hot oatmeal breakfast keeps you full for longer."

Last year, The New York Times revealed how Coca-Cola was funding well-known scientists and organizations promoting a message that, in the battle against weight gain,
people should pay more attention to exercise and less to what they eat and drink.

Coca-Cola also released data detailing its funding of several medical institutions and associations between 2010 and 2015.

"It's certainly a problem that so much research in nutrition and health is funded by industry," says Bonnie Liebman, director of nutrition at the Center for Science in the Public Interest.

"When the food industry pays for research, it often gets what it pays for."

And what it pays for is often a pro-industry finding.

Given this environment, consumers should be skeptical when reading the latest finding in nutrition science and ignore the latest study that pops up on your news feed.

"Rely on health experts who've reviewed all the evidence," Liebman says, pointing to the official government Dietary Guidelines, which are based on reviews of hundreds of studies.

"And that expert advice remains pretty simple," says Nestle. "We know what healthy diets are - lots of vegetables, not too much junk food,
balanced calories. Everything else is really difficult to do experimentally.

## The Other Side of Boredom

Boredom has become trendy.
Studies point to how boredom is good for creativity and innovation, as well as mental health.
It is found that people are more creative following the completion of a tedious task.
When people are bored, they have an increase in \"associative thought\" - the process of making new connections between ideas, which is linked to innovative thinking.
These studies are impressive, but in reality, the benefits of boredom may be related to having time to clear your mind, be quiet, or daydream.
In our stimulation-rich world, it seems unrealistic that boredom could occur at all.
Yet, there are valid reasons boredom may feel so painful.
As it turns out, boredom might signal the fact that you have a need that isn't being met.
Our always-on world of social media may result in more connections, but they are superficial and can get in the way of building a real sense of belonging.
Feeling bored may signal the desire for a greater sense of community and the feeling that you fit in with others around you.
So take the step of joining an organization to build face-to-face relationships.
You'll find depth that you won't get from your screen no matter how many likes you get on your post.
Similar to the need for belonging, bored people often report that they feel a limited sense of meaning.
It's a fundamental human need to have a larger purpose and to feel like we're part of something bigger than ourselves.
When people are bored, they're more likely to feel less meaning in their lives.
If you want to reduce boredom and increase your sense of meaning, seek work where you can make a unique contribution, or find a cause you can support with your time and talent.
If your definition of boredom is being quiet, mindful, and reflective, keep it up.
But if you're struggling with real boredom and the emptiness it provokes, consider whether you might seek new connections and more significant challenges.
These are the things that will genuinely relieve boredom and make you more effective in the process.
