## Everyone Needs Creativity

You can't see it, smell it, or hear it, and people disagree on how precisely to define it, or where exactly it comes from.
It isn't a school subject or an academic discipline, but it can be learned.
It is a quality that is required of artists, but it is also present in the lives of scientists and entrepreneurs.
All of us benefit from it and we thrive mentally and spiritually when we are able to wield it.
It is a delicate thing, easily stamped out; in fact, it flourishes most fully when people are playful and childlike.
Meanwhile, it works best in conjunction with deep knowledge and expertise.
This mysterious - but teachable - quality is creativity, the subject of a recently-published report by Durham Commission on Creativity and Education.
The report concludes that creativity should not inhabit the school curriculum only as it relates to drama, music, art and other obviously creative subjects, but that creative thinking ought to run through all of school life, infusing the way humanities and natural sciences are learned.
The authors, who focus on education in England, offer a number of sensible recommendations, some of which are an attempt to alleviate the uninspiring and fact-based approach to education that has crept into policy in recent years.
When children are regarded as vessels to be filled with facts, creativity does not prosper; nor does it when teachers' sole objective is coaching children towards exams.
One suggestion from the commission is a network of teacher-led "creativity collaboratives", along the lines of existing maths hubs, with the aim of supporting teaching for creativity through the school curriculum.
Nevertheless, it is arts subjects through which creativity can most obviously be fostered.
The value placed on them by the independent education sector is clear.
One only has to look at the remarkable arts facilities at Britain's top private schools to comprehend this.
But in the state sector, the excessive focus on English, maths and science threatens to crush arts subjects; meanwhile, reduced school budgets mean diminishing extracurricular activities.
There has been a 28.1% decline in students taking creative subjects at high schools since 2014, though happily, art and design have seen a recent increase.
This discrepancy between state and private education is a matter of social justice.
It is simply wrong and unfair that most children have a fraction of the access to choirs, orchestras, art studios and drama that their more privileged peers enjoy.
As lives are affected by any number of looming challenges - climate crisis, automation in the workplace - humans are going to need creative thinking more than ever.
For all of our sakes, creativity in education, and for all, must become a priority.

## Travelers Should Pay Their Way

Nicola Sturgeon's speech last Tuesday setting out the Scottish government's legislative program for the year ahead confirmed what was already pretty clear.
Scottish councils are set to be the first in the UK with the power to levy charges on visitors, with Edinburgh likely to lead the way.
Tourist taxes are not new.
The Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan has a longstanding policy of charging visitors a daily fee.
France's tax on overnight stays was introduced to assist thermal spa towns to develop, and around half of French local authorities use it today.
But such levies are on the rise.
Moves by Barcelona and Venice to deal with the phenomenon of "over-tourism" through the use of charges have recently gained prominence.
Japan and Greece are among the countries to have recently introduced tourist taxes.
That the UK lags behind is due to our weak, by international standards, local government, as well as the opposition to taxes and regulation of our aggressively pro-market ruling party.
Some UK cities have lobbied without success for the power to levy a charge on Visitors.
Such levies are no universal remedy as the amounts raised would be tiny compared with what has been taken away by central government since 2010.
Still, it is to be hoped that the Scottish government's bold move will prompt others to act.
There is no reason why visitors to the UK, or domestic tourists on holiday in hot spots such as Cornwall, should be exempt from taxation - particularly when vital local services including waste collection, park maintenance and arts and culture spending are under unprecedented strain.
On the contrary, compelling tourists to make a financial contribution to the places they visit beyond their personal consumption should be part of a wider cultural shift.
Westerners with disposable incomes have often behaved as if they have a right to go wherever they choose with little regard for the consequences.
Just as the environmental harm caused by aviation and other transport must come under far greater scrutiny, the social cost of tourism must also be confronted.
This includes the impact of short-term lets on housing costs and quality of life for residents.
Several European capitals, including Paris and Berlin, are leading a campaign for tougher regulation by the European Union.
It also includes the impact of overcrowding, litter and the kinds of behavior associated with noisy parties.
There is no "one size fits all" solution to this problem.
The existence of new revenue streams for some but not all councils is complicated, and businesses are often opposed, fearing higher costs will make them uncompetitive.
But those places that want them must be given the chance to make tourist taxes work.
