## What Traveling on a Plane Does to Your Body

Millions of people travel by plane every single day. If you're planning on being one of them soon, you might not be looking forward to the unpleasant feeling air travel often leaves you with.
Besides the airport crowds and stress, travelling at a high altitude has real effects on the body.
Although the pressure of the cabin is adjusted to prevent altitude sickness, you could still experience sleepiness or a headache.
The lower oxygen pressure found in an aircraft cabin is equivalent to that at 6,000-8,000 feet of altitude.
A drop in oxygen pressure can cause headaches in certain individuals.
To help prevent headaches, drink plenty of water, and avoid alcohol and coffee.
Airplane food might not really be as tasteless as you originally thought.
The air you breathe in a plane dries out your mouth and nose, which can affect your sense of taste.
Perception of sweet and salty foods dropped by almost 30 percent in a simulation of air travel.
However, you can make your taste buds active again by drinking water.
A dry mouth may reduce taste sensitivity, but taste is restored by drinking fluids.
Although in-flight infections thrive in dry environments like airplanes, your risk of getting sick from an airplane is actually low because of the air filters used.
Unless you're sitting next to someone who is coughing or sneezing, you shouldn't worry too much about getting sick.
However, bacteria have been shown to live on cabin surfaces, so wash your hands frequently.

## One Sick Passenger Won't Infect Everyone on t

Finally, some good news about airplane travel: If you're on a plane with a sick passenger, you are unlikely to get sick.
That is the conclusion of a new study that looked at how respiratory viruses spread on airplanes.
Researchers found that only people who were seated in the same row as a passenger with the flu, for example - or one row in front of or behind that individual - had a high risk of catching the illness.
All other passengers had only a very slim chance of getting sick, according to the findings.
Media reports have not necessarily presented accurate information about the risk of getting infected on an airplane in the past.
Therefore, these new findings should help airplane passengers feel less vulnerable to catching respiratory infections while traveling by air.
Prior to the new study, little was known about the risks of getting directly infected by common respiratory viruses, such as the flu or common cold, on an airplane, the researchers said.
So, to evaluate the risks of infection, the study team flew on 10 different flights in the U.S. during the flu season.
The researchers found that passengers sitting within two seats on either side of a person infected with the flu, as well as those sitting one row in front of or behind this individual, had about an 80 percent chance of getting sick.
But other passengers were largely safe from infection. They had a less than 3 percent chance of catching the flu.

## Is It Safe to Always Drink Bottled Water?

When traveling overseas, do you buy water in plastic bottles or take your chances with tap water?
Imagine you are wandering about on a Thai island or admiring the ruins of Angkor. It's hot so you grab a bottle of water from a local vendor.
It's the safe thing to do, right?
The bottle is sealed, and the label says "pure water".
But maybe what's inside is not so natural.
Would you still be drinking it if you knew that more than 90 percent of all bottled water sold around the world contains microplastics?
That's the conclusion of a recently released study, which analysed 259 bottles from 11 brands sold in nine countries, revealing an average of 325 plastic particles per litre of water.
These microplastics included a substance commonly known as PET and widely used in the manufacture of clothing and food and liquid containers.
The study was conducted at the State University of New York on behalf of Orb Media, a journalism organisation.
About a million bottles are bought every minute, not only by thirsty tourists but also by many of the 2.1 billion worldwide who live with unsafe drinking water.
Confronted with this evidence, several bottled-water manufacturers including Nestle and Coca-Cola undertook their own studies using the same methodology.
These studies showed that their water did contain microplastics, but far less than the Orb study suggested.
Regardless, the World Health Organization has launched a review into the potential health risks of drinking water from plastic bottles.

## Sea Slug

When we think of animals and plants, we have a pretty good way of dividing them into two distinct groups: one converts sunlight into energy and the other has to eat food to make its energy.
Well, those dividing lines come crashing down with the discovery of a sea slug that's truly half animal and half plant.
It's pretty incredible how it has managed to hijack the genes of the algae on which it feeds.
The slugs can manufacture chlorophyll, the green pigment in plants that captures energy from sunlight, and hold these genes within their body.
The term kleptoplasty is used to describe the practice of using hijacked genes to create nutrients from sunlight.
And so far, this green sea slug is the only known animal that can be truly considered solar-powered, although some animals do exhibit some plant-like behaviors.
Many scientists have studied the green sea slugs to confirm that they are actually able to create energy from sunlight.
In fact, the slugs use the genetic material so well that they pass it on to their future generations.
Their babies retain the ability to produce their own chlorophyll, though they can't generate energy from sunlight until they've eaten enough algae to steal the necessary genes, which they can't yet produce on their own.
"There's no way on earth that genes from an alga should work inside an animal cell," says Sidney Pierce from the University of South Florida.
"And yet here, they do. They allow the animal to rely on sunshine for its nutrition. So if something happens to their food source, they have a way of not starving to death until they find more algae to eat."
The sea slugs are so good at gathering energy from the sun that they can live up to nine months without having to eat any food.
They get all their nutritional needs met by the genes that they've hijacked from the algae.

## Philadelphia Passed a Soda Tax

The fifth-largest city in the US passed a significant soda tax proposal that will levy 1.5 cents per liquid ounce on distributors.
Philadelphia's new measure was approved by a 13 to 4 city council vote. It sets a new bar for similar initiatives across the country.
It is proof that taxes on sugary drinks can win substantial support outside super-liberal areas.
Until now, the only city to successfully pass and implement a soda tax was Berkeley, California, in 2014.
The tax will apply to regular and diet sodas, as well as other drinks with added sugar, such as Gatorade and iced teas.
It's expected to raise $410 million over the next five years, most of which will go toward funding a universal pre-kindergarten program for the city.
While the city council vote was met with applause inside the council room, opponents to the measure, including soda lobbyists, made sharp criticisms and a promise to challenge the tax in court.
The tax passed today unfairly singles out beverages - including low- and no-calorie choices," said Lauren Kane, spokeswoman for the American Beverage Association.
But most importantly, it is against the law. So we will side with the majority of the people of Philadelphia who oppose this tax and take legal action to stop it.
An industry-backed anti-tax campaign has spent at least $4 million on advertisements. The ads criticized the measure, characterizing it as a "grocery tax."
Public health groups applauded the approved tax as a step toward fixing certain lasting health issues that plague Americans.
The move to recapture a small part of the profits from an industry that pushes a product that contributes to diabetes, obesity and heart disease in poorer communities in order to reinvest in those communities will sure be inspirational to many other places," said Jim Krieger, executive director of Healthy Food America.
Indeed, we are already hearing from some of them. It's not 'just Berkeley' anymore."
Similar measures in California's Albany, Oakland, San Francisco and Colorado's Boulder are becoming hot-button issues.
Health advocacy groups have hinted that even more might be coming.

## Are Microwave Ovens Cooking the Environment?

Popping food into the microwave for a couple of minutes may seem utterly harmless, but Europe's stock of these quick-cooking ovens emit as much carbon as nearly 7 million cars, a new study has found.
And the problem is growing.
With costs falling and kitchen appliances becoming "status" items, owners are throwing away microwaves after an average of eight years.
This is pushing sales of new microwaves which are expected to reach 135 million annually in the EU by the end of the decade.
A study by the University of Manchester calculated the emissions of CO2 - the main greenhouse gas responsible for climate change - at every stage of microwaves, from manufacture to waste disposal.
It is electricity consumption by microwaves that has the biggest impact on the environment," say the authors.
The authors also calculate that the emissions from using 19 microwaves over a year are the same as those from using a car.
According to the same study, efforts to reduce consumption should focus on improving consumer awareness and behaviour.
For example, consumers could use appliances in a more efficient way by adjusting the time of cooking to the type of food.
However, David Reay, professor of carbon management, argues that, although microwaves use a great deal of energy, their emissions are minor compared to those from cars.
In the UK alone, there are around 30 million cars.
These cars emit more than all the microwaves in the EU.
Backing this up, recent data show that passenger cars in the UK emitted 69 million tons of CO2 in 2015.
This is 10 times the amount this new microwave oven study estimates for annual emissions for all the microwave ovens in the EU.
Further, the energy used by microwaves is lower than any other form of cooking.
Among common kitchen appliances used for cooking, microwaves are the most energy-efficient, followed by a stove and finally a standard oven.
Thus, rising microwave sales could be seen as a positive thing.

## Why Textbooks Are Here to Stay

Textbooks represent an 11 billion dollar industry, up from $8 billion in 2014.
Textbook publisher Pearson is the largest publisher - of any kind - in the world.
It costs about $1 million to create a new textbook.
A freshman textbook will have dozens of contributors, from subject-matter experts through graphic and layout artists to expert reviewers and classroom testers.
Textbook publishers connect professors, instructors and students in ways that alternatives, such as open e-textbooks and open educational resources, simply do not.
This connection happens not only by means of collaborative development, review and testing, but also at conferences where faculty regularly decide on their textbooks and curricula for the coming year.
It is true that textbook publishers have recently reported losses, largely due to students renting or buying used print textbooks.
But this can be chalked up to the excessively high cost of their books - which has increased over 1,000 percent since 1977.
A restructuring of the textbook industry may well be in order. But this does not mean the end of the textbook itself.
While they may not be as dynamic as an iPad, textbooks are not passive or lifeless.
For example, over the centuries, they have simulated dialogues in a number of ways.
From 1800 to the present day, textbooks have done this by posing questions for students to answer inductively.
That means students are asked to use their individual experience to come up with answers to general questions.
Today's psychology texts, for example, ask: \"How much of your personality do you think you inherited?\" while ones in physics say: "How can you predict where the ball you tossed will land?"
Experts observe that "textbooks come in layers, something like an onion."
For an active learner, engaging with a textbook can be an interactive experience: Readers proceed at their own pace.
They "customize" their books by engaging with different layers and linkages.
Highlighting, Post-It notes, dog-ears and other techniques allow for further customization that students value in print books over digital forms of books.

## How to Create a Successful Crowdfunding Campaign

Thinking small, being engaging, and having a sense of humor, don't hurt.
Those are a few of the traits of successful science crowdfunding efforts that emerge from a recent study that examined nearly 400 campaigns.
But having a large network and some promotional skills may be more crucial.
Crowdfunding, raising money for a project through online appeals, has taken off in recent years for everything from making movies to producing water-saving gadgets.
Scientists have tried to tap Internet donors, too, with mixed success.
Some raised more than twice their goals, but others have fallen short of reaching even modest targets.
To determine what separates science crowdfunding triumphs from failures, a team led by science communications scholar Mike Schafer of the University of Zurich examined the content of the web pages for 371 recent campaigns.
Four traits stood out for those that achieved their goals, the researchers report in Public Understanding of Science.
For one, they use a crowdfunding platform that specializes in raising money for science, and not just any kind of project.
Although sites like Kickstarter take all comers, platforms such as Experiment. com and Petridish. org only present scientific projects.
For another, they present the project with a funny video because good visuals and a sense of humor improved success.
Most of them engage with potential donors, since projects that answered questions from interested donors fared better.
And they target a small amount of money.
The projects included in the study raised $4000 on average, with 30% receiving less than $1000.
The more money a project sought, the lower the chance it reached its goal, the researchers found.
Other factors may also significantly influence a project's success, most notably, the size of a scientist's personal and professional networks, and how much a researcher promotes a project on their own.
These two factors are by far more critical than the content on the page.
Crowdfunding can be part of researchers' efforts to reach the public, and people give because \"they feel a connection to the person\" who is doing the fundraising - not necessarily to the science.

## Prof's Teaching Assistant Isn't Human

Professor Ashok Goel of Georgia Tech developed an artificially intelligent teaching assistant to help handle the enormous number of student questions in the online class, Knowledge-Based Artificial Intelligence.
This online course is a core requirement of Georgia Tech's online Master of Science in Computer Science program.
Professor Goel already had eight teaching assistants, but that wasn't enough to deal with the overwhelming number of daily questions from students.
Many students drop out of online courses because of the lack of teaching support.
When students feel isolated or confused and reach out with questions that go unanswered, their motivation to continue begins to fade.
Professor Goel decided to do something to remedy this situation and his solution was to create a virtual assistant named Jill Watson, which is based on the IBM Watson platform.
Goel and his team developed several versions of Jill Watson before releasing her to the online forums.
At first, the virtual assistant wasn't too great.
But Goel and his team sourced the online discussion forum to find all the 40,000 questions that had ever been asked since the class was launched.
Then they began to feed Jill with the questions and answers.
After some adjustments and sufficient time, Jill was able to answer the students' questions correctly 97% of the time.
The virtual assistant became so advanced and realistic that the students didn't know she was a computer.
The students, who were studying artificial intelligence, were interacting with the virtual assistant and couldn't tell it apart from a real human being.
artificial intelligence 人工智能
Goel didn't inform them about Jill's true identity until April 26.
The students were actually very positive about the experience.
The goal of Professor Goel's virtual assistant next year is to take over answering 40% of all the questions posed by students on the online forum.
The name Jill Watson will, of course, change to something else next semester.
Professor Goel has a much rosier outlook on the future of artificial intelligence than, say, Elon Musk, Stephen Hawking, Bill Gates or Steve Wozniak.
